# AGRI-TRACEABILITY
# About the Project - For citizens in many countries, food safety has been a major worry. Product quality and safety can be jeopardized by outbreaks of disease in animals that can be transmitted to humans, such as avian flu, or the presence of chemicals in feed and food that exceed authorized limits. To safeguard individuals from food-borne diseases, the ability to remove or recall items that have been identified as dangerous has become critical. Traceability is a risk-management technology that allows food businesses or government agencies to respond to this need.
# Introduction to Traceability System - By documenting each point of food handling, a food traceability system allows you to track the flow of any food product. When an event happens, the food traceability system may be able to assist with the recall of the affected food product(s) as well as the investigation of the reason. Additionally, communicating and validating essential information would improve the credibility of labels and other information, allowing consumers to purchase food confidently. Furthermore, it is critical to understand that the traceability system is a tool for achieving that goal. It's also crucial not to go overboard with your efforts, such as setting up a traceability system as a goal in and of itself.
# Proposed System - In this application, we have created a system from the farmer to the end consumer to validate its authenticity. The limitations of the existing system are being overcome.
This application uses blockchain instead of a regular database which promises greater security.
Traceability in the application shows from the time the seed is sown, hence showing transparency by giving more information about the product's authenticity.
There is no way to duplicate the scanning code and use it on fake products as it does not let it be printed twice.
# Advantages of Proposed System:
Using blockchain instead of regular databases provides greater security to the system
as it prevents any data from being mishandled or altered after being added to the blockchain.
The proposed system provides complete traceability of the product and traces back to the origin of the product i.e., from the time the seed is sown, providing authenticity.
Restricted QR code printing ensures no duplication of the QR code is being used on faulty/fake products.
# Software Requirements -
FrontEnd: HTML, CSS, BOOTSTRAP, JQUERY
BackEnd: PYTHON FLASK, DYNAMODB, AWS BLOCKCHAIN SERVICES - ETHEREUM
# Hardware Requirements
The hardware requirements for the project are broadly divided for two resources – cloud services requirement and the requirement for blockchain. In this project, we are using the cloud services to create a serverless architecture. Hence for the APIs lambda functions of AWS are being used. Each lambda function uses the same of 2GB of 2 core. These generally have a Linux as the operating systems since it is lightweight for deployment and do not have cross origin problems.
For Blockchain, we might need more than 10GB harddisk.
# Implementation - 
In the login page the user can login using the mobile number and password given while signing up. Here the login is done using mobile number as farmers aren’t much aware of using e-mail and they tend to forget them easily as they do not use e-mail very often. We also have a remember me option which will remember the user and it will be helpful for the user as he won’t be required to login every time he exits out of the website.
In the sign up page we ask what type of user is signing in user or consumer. After that we
take their mobile number which we will be using for login functionality. We ask to type the password twice in order to avoid any errors from the user end. After that we take the address of the user. After providing all the above information correctly a new user record will be created when we signup.
In the home page we show the ledgers for every product that has been transacted by the user. We see that each product has a QR code. This QR code when scanned gives the entire traceability flow and each ledger gives information in 5 fields – Date the invoice has been created, The invoice number which is unique and is automatically generated when an invoice is raised or when a production record is added, The customer to which the product has been sold, The amount of produce being received, The amount of produce being sold.
The Add production record Page is accessible to the farmer. Farmer can add details of his product in this page which include the product name which can be rice, wheat etc. Farmer can specify the quantity of the product which is produced. Farmer can also specify the units of measurements which can be in kilograms, pounds etc. He can add the fertilizer used on the crops, the date on which the seeds were sown and the date on which the crops were harvested.
For every user we have the user profile page where we will mostly display all the details the user entered while signing up into the website.
In the Raise Invoice page we ask the user to enter the customer name, the product our user is selling and it's quantity which can be given in various units like kgs, lbs. After we click the submit button the invoice details are added to the blockchain and an alert is displayed mentioning the wallet address and the remaining gas in the wallet.
We get the QR code scanned- tracking path page after scanning the QR code in the home page. In this we display all the customers the that were involved from start to end. We can see the flow of the crop with quantities each customer bought and it also provides the exact time and date too.
# Conclusion - The goal of this study was to find out what was going on in the area of blockchain research and agriculture development. For this goal, the analysis included publications from all relevant databases and publishing sources. The majority of publications are conference proposals rather than journal papers or published works, indicating that blockchain study is limited to a few locations. There were just a few papers that directly addressed the blockchain-based system's deployment. The project looked into traceability, architecture and security, information systems, and other agricultural applications. Nonetheless, numerous fundamental issues with blockchain implementation, such as scalability, interoperability, and the application of blockchain in precise food and agriculture supply chain management design, appear to be unsolved.
